---
title: My Favorite Albums - The 2000s
slug: my-favorite-albums-from-the-2000s
date: 2024-05-29
description: An annotated list of my favorite albums from 2000 to 2009.
tags:
  - albums
  - personal
  - series
image: /img/record.jpg
imageHeaderSize: 125
---

A chronological list of my favorite albums from 2000 to 2009 with reasons why I like them.

Part of the [#albums](/tags/albums/) series.

<div class="hr shadow mt2 mb2"></div>

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/aop-fdt.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Altar of Perversion - From Dead Temples", "Release: 2001" %}

An epic, monumental black metal album that's equally fierce and atmospheric.

I first got this album on CD, but later hunted down the vinyl. Quite interesting, because "From Dead Temples" was released as a 6 track LP that comes with an additional 2 tracks on a 7", one of them a bonus track that's not on the CD.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/af-bft.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Aslan Faction - Blunt Force Trauma", "Release: 2002" %}

"The Matrix" came out in 1999. By 2002, I'd probably seen it 50 times, and "Blunt Force Trauma" sounded just like it belonged into the movie universe - I loved it!

Oh, almost forgot: I'd probably never have heard of this record, if it wasn't for a perfectly planned (and definitely parent-supported) home party I hosted. I had to end this very civilized gathering abruptly, and an unknown person forgot their perfectly legal backup copy of this album in my stereo, haha.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/k-k.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Kaamos - Kaamos", "Release: 2002" %}

Swedish death metal, from the beginning of a(nother?) "new wave of Swedish death metal" in the early to mid 2000s.

Kaamos' self-titled debut album is a brutal and intense record with a thick, powerful production that drives their "Curse of Aeons" right into your ears. It's one of my favorite death metal albums of all time.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/qotsa-sftd.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Queens of the Stone Age - Songs for the Deaf", "Release: 2002" %}

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/v-v.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Verdunkeln - Verdunkeln", "Release: 2005" %}

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/k-wwe.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Katharsis - VVorldVVithoutEnd", "Release: 2006" %}

If the apocalypse had a soundtrack, this would be it.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/r-eod.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Repugnant - Epitome of Darkness", "Release: 2006" %}

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/nc-tir.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Necros Christos - Trivne Impvrity Rites", "Release: 2007" %}

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/cdg-h.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Cultes Des Ghoules - Häxan", "Release: 2008" %}

Deranged.

Also made me discover the excellent movie "Possession" by Andrzej Żuławski.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/dc-gota.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Dead Congregation - Graves of the Archangels", "Release: 2008" %}

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/ir-reoce.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Impetuous Ritual - Relentless Execution of Ceremonial Excrescence", "Release: 2009" %}

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/sas-lfv.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Soap&Skin - Lovetune for Vacuum", "Release: 2009" %}

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/t-sc.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Teitanblood - Seven Chalices", "Release: 2009" %}
