---
title: Thoughts About Workflow Engines
slug: thoughts-about-workflow-engines
date: 2024-01-01
description: DESCRIPTION HERE
tags:
  - learning
  - opinion
---

compare classic arch vs wf driven

drawings?

don't just rant, there are benefits without development (i.e. orchestration)

conclusion: 

- not really "low code"
- benefits
- complexity quote


_______________________________________


A couple of months ago, I started working on a project with the desired outcome of building a large and complex application on top of a workflow engine. A wild mixture of a planned microservice and orchestration (-driven) architecture was written into the documents supplied by the customer, making the whole thing sound a lot like "I want to draw software..." when read between the lines.

I spent a lot of time with the topic since then: I'm participating in discussions and workshops, and I'm also building an ever-growing proof of concept application. One thing I can already say with a bit of confidence is, that in doing so, I'm definitely learning a lot. Consequently, this article is a collection of my thoughts about building software that makes use of a workflow engine.

## What's a Workflow Engine?

I guess it's always good to start with a definition. I'm feeling a bit lazy though, so this definition was generated by {% ext "perplexity", "https://www.perplexity.ai" %}. The LLM claims that the following definition is based on Wikipedia, IBM and a couple of other sources:

> A workflow engine is a software application that manages and automates business processes. It typically uses a database server and pre-coded scripts to manage and maintain workflows. The workflow engine manages and monitors the state of activities in a workflow and determines which new activity to transition to according to defined processes. It can execute any arbitrary sequence of steps and facilitates the flow of information, tasks, and events. Workflow engines have utility in numerous industries and applications, from connecting remote workers to approving vacation to invoicing. They can automate routine tasks and procedures in a business environment, allowing employees to focus on more important work. By automating processes, businesses can ensure that tasks are completed accurately, promptly, and efficiently, which improves the overall customer experience, increases customer loyalty, and reduces costs.

Source: {% ext "perplexity result", "https://www.perplexity.ai/search/what-is-a-YC8We2kkQjaxg_mx65CfHg?s=c#602f167b-6924-4236-b183-f9b1eb909f1e" %}

I didn't edit that response because I would say that I mostly agree with it. It's neither too detailed, nor too sales-y for the purpose of this article. Let's have a closer look at it:

> A software application that manages and automates business processes

On the surface: kind of yes.

But: I learned that the "business" in any given business process does not necessarily have to be the right level of detail for an _executable_ workflow. There might be a lot of options in specific BPM notations (i.e. {% ext "BPMN", "https://www.bpmn.org/" %}), but it's up to the respective engine to define which specific tokens, tasks, decisions etc. of any given notation it actually supports.

> The workflow engine manages and monitors the state of activities in a workflow and determines which new activity to transition to

Yes, I agree with that statement.

> It can execute any arbitrary sequence of steps and facilitates the flow of information, tasks, and events.

Mostly yes, but if we define that _facilitate_ == "to make easy or easier", then we absolutely have to talk about _added_ complexity due to the use of a workflow engine. I'll get back to that one in a bit.

> Workflow engines have utility in numerous industries and applications, from connecting remote workers to approving vacation to invoicing.

Yeah, why not.

NB: approving a thing, invoicing and order processing are very common examples. They can often be thought of as highly automated processes, which works in favor of workflow engines. That's probably why these use cases are very popular in both vendor documentation and marketing.

> They can automate routine tasks and procedures in a business environment, allowing employees to focus on more important work.

They absolutely can, yes.

But: it gets tricky when they're utilized to automate tasks and procedures that are _not_ routine. And once there is a license for a workflow engine available, that's inevitably going to come up.

> Businesses can ensure that tasks are completed accurately, promptly, and efficiently, which improves the overall customer experience, increases customer loyalty, and reduces costs.

Well, I guess it's definitely possible that some or even all of that can happen, but I think the LLM went a little overboard here. The statement doesn't add anything to the definition, and it rather sounds like some marketing site gibberish that you'd expect to find somewhere near a CTA.

With the definition taken care of, we can now move on and explore a couple of topics that will sooner or later come up when you're dealing with workflow engines.

## The Low-Code Promise

In theory, making use a workflow engine sounds like an easy way out of having to develop custom applications or to request changes from software vendors and solution providers. I decided to call this "the low-code promise", considering that the business users' expectations often revolve around making increasingly complex software functionality easy to change (i.e. changing a process flowchart) once it's handled by a workflow engine. I wouldn't go so far as to call this an _empty promise_, but I'd definitely argue that it is a common pitfall in terms of misaligned expectations.

What's likely to cause these misaligned expectations is probably a mixture of both, a lack of technical understanding and the lack of awareness/information regarding the larger landscape of systems and applications a workflow engine gets placed in. Yes, of course, there are interfaces for commonly used communication protocols, systems and applications, but most - if not all - of them expect to be consumed/used in a certain way. 

So, what the workflow engine ends up being used as eventually, can probably best be described as an _orchestrator_ of functionality that is actually handled by dedicated services, systems and applications. That may be a benefit for some use cases (i.e. working with legacy systems), but it also causes an increased overhead in terms of having to maintain the necessary artifacts (i.e. workflow charts) and code (i.e. job workers, interfaces) the workflow engine needs to function.

## Workflow-Driven Architecture 

re: _facilitate_ => complexity

Let's imagine a classic MVC application with 3 layers like this:

- Front end (web) client
- Back end (business) logic
- Database/s

### Orchestration

