---
title: My Favorite Albums - The 1990s
slug: my-favorite-albums-from-the-1990s
date: 2024-05-24
description: An annotated list of my favorite albums from 1990 to 1999.
tags:
  - albums
  - personal
  - series
image: /img/record.jpg
imageHeaderSize: 125
---

A chronological list of my favorite albums from 1990 to 1999 with reasons why I like them.

Part of the [#albums](/tags/albums/) series.

<div class="hr shadow mt2 mb2"></div>

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/b-faod.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Blasphemy – Fallen Angel of Doom....", "Release: 1990" %}

A monument of sonic destruction at the intersection of black and death metal. Also, one of the foundations of a sub-genre that would later be called war metal.

It's a raw, brutal sounding piece of extreme music that definitely isn't for everyone. The music, the aesthetics and the whole Ross Bay Cult thing were quite appealing to me in the early 2000s, when I discovered Blasphemy and this record, and influenced a lot of things I was involved in at the time.

The quintessential Blasphemy song: "Ritual".

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/jp-p.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Judas Priest – Painkiller", "Release: 1990" %}

When I was a kid, I found this one in my father's record shelf. I picked it up because of its stunning cover, and it's probably the first metal record I ever listened to.

Tracks that I must have listened to a thousand times by now: "Painkiller", "Leather Rebel" and "Night Crawler".

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/d-laefs.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Dismember – Like an Ever Flowing Stream", "Release: 1991" %}

In the early 2000s, I was heavily into old school Swedish death metal and dug up even the most obscure bands. Many of them were great, some even released albums. But nobody got close to "Like an Ever Flowing Stream" - ok, Carnage did ("Dark Recollections"), but they were essentially Amott + Dismember anyway.

Playing this record and listening to how "Override of the Overture" builds up is truly stunning, give it a try!

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/n-n.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Nirvana – Nevermind", "Release: 1991" %}

An outstanding album that's still amazing today.

Thinking about it makes me wonder how today's teenagers would react to being given the 50th dub of a cassette with "Nevermind" on it and hearing it for the first time. But on the other hand: why bother - they probably prefer their vertical videos anyway, and might struggle with listening to a whole, continuous album.

My favorite track from this album: "Breed", for its raw aggression.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/d-abitns.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Darkthrone – A Blaze in the Northern Sky", "Release: 1992" %}

I knew Darkthrone as a black metal band before I discovered that they'd also been a death metal band at some point (releasing "Soulside Journey", a decent album). Either way, they're great, and "A Blaze..." is definitely one of the best Norwegian black metal records - there isn't a single bad track on this album.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/i-otg.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Incantation – Onward to Golgotha", "Release: 1992" %}

Dark, rotten death metal from the US. Their unique, heavy sound resonated with me so much, that I spent a lot of time and money on trying to create my own version of it.

Highlights: "Devoured Death", "Unholy Massacre" and "Entrantment of Evil"

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/n-i.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Necrosanct – Incarnate", "Release: 1992" %}

If I had to describe it in one word: relentless.

It was a hidden gem when I discovered it, and it probably still is today. Hunting down the vinyl record took me a while (there were no reissues of this album around in ~2010), but I'm glad I did - it's one of my favorite death metal records of all time.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/b-ddtm.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Beherit – Drawing Down the Moon", "Release: 1993" %}

A dark and twisted record that perfectly unites black and death metal. Needless to say that it most definitely influenced countless bands over time and that it's certainly one of the greats of Finnish extreme metal.

Songs like "Nocturnal Evil", "Sadomatic Rites", "The Gate of Nanna" and "Unholy Pagan Fire" were burnt into my brain forever.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/m-dmds.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Mayhem - De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas", "Release: 1994" %}

_The_ Mayhem album. I don't care much for what came after it.

Also, probably the (first?) peak of Norwegian black metal. A dark and evil sounding masterpiece that cuts through your ears like a razor.

There's nothing quite like the memory of the first time I listened to "Funeral Fog", immediately followed by the glorious "Freezing Moon". And that title track, "De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas", all the way at the end, when I thought this record couldn't get any better - I was wrong, and it did.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/d-s.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Death - Symbolic", "Release: 1995" %}

Probably the best Death album, and definitely one of the best death metal albums of the 90s.

Their songwriting is excellent on this one, even though the lyrics are pretty far from the usual death metal topics of the time. And the production is nothing short of amazing - aggressive and powerful, yet clean enough for the listener to discover the technical finesse in their playing.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/d-outc.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Deicide – Once Upon the Cross", "Release: 1995" %}

Picking just one Deicide album from this decade was hard.

Their first three albums are all excellent really, but I chose "Once Upon the Cross" because it's the one that feels the most like a bulldozer rolling over your face.

If you need reasons, check out these songs: "Once Upon the Cross", "Kill the Christian" and "They are the Children of the Underworld".

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/a-hog.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Angelcorpse – Hammer of Gods", "Release: 1996" %}

A marvel of black/death metal that leaves nothing in its path.

Both sound engineering and execution are extremely well done, and songs like "Lord of the Funeral Pyre" or "Black Solstice" are so catchy that you won't get them out of your head easily.

I still remember seeing them live in a small club around 2007 or so. There was no stage, so we stood about 2 meters away from them. Watching a band up close, playing with such perfection, was really impressive.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/a-etd.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Asphyx – Embrace the Death", "Release: 1996" %}

This album was actually recorded in 1990, but not released until '96. As such, it's their first album, and I also consider it their best.

It's a dark and obscure mixture of doom and death metal, the exact formula that made (the original) Asphyx stylistically unique.

Highlights: the A-side as a whole.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/mf-itu.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Mercyful Fate – Into the Unknown", "Release: 1996" %}

Nothing too special, just a good heavy metal album. I listened to it a lot for a while, and it quickly became my favorite Mercyful Fate record.

Favorite songs: "The Uninvited Guest", "Into the Unknown" and "Under the Spell".

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/i-itirotac.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Inquisition – Into the Infernal Regions of the Ancient Cult", "Release: 1998" %}

An excellent album that managed to combine many styles and different influences from extreme metal into the unique, meditative style that Inquisition became known for.

Highlights: "Those of the Night", "Empire of Luciferian Race" and "Into the Infernal Regions of the Ancient Cult".
