---
title: My Favorite Albums - The 2000s
slug: my-favorite-albums-from-the-2000s
date: 2024-05-30
description: An annotated list of my favorite albums from 2000 to 2009.
tags:
  - albums
  - personal
  - series
image: /img/record.jpg
imageHeaderSize: 125
---

A chronological list of my favorite albums from 2000 to 2009 with reasons why I like them.

Part of the [#albums](/tags/albums/) series.

<div class="hr shadow mt2 mb2"></div>

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/aop-fdt.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Altar of Perversion - From Dead Temples", "Release: 2001" %}

An epic, monumental black metal album that's equally fierce and atmospheric.

I first got this album on CD, but later hunted down the vinyl. Quite interesting, because "From Dead Temples" was released as a 6 track LP that comes with an additional 2 tracks on a 7", one of them a bonus track that's not on the CD.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/af-bft.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Aslan Faction - Blunt Force Trauma", "Release: 2002" %}

"The Matrix" came out in 1999. By 2002, I'd probably seen it 50 times, and "Blunt Force Trauma" sounded just like it belonged into the movie universe - I loved it!

Oh, almost forgot: I'd probably never have heard of this record, if it wasn't for a perfectly planned (and definitely parent-supported) home party I hosted. I had to end this very civilized gathering abruptly, and an unknown person forgot their perfectly legal backup copy of this album in my stereo, haha.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/k-k.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Kaamos - Kaamos", "Release: 2002" %}

Swedish death metal, from the beginning of a(nother?) "new wave of Swedish death metal" that started in the early to mid 2000s.

Kaamos' self-titled debut album is a brutal and intense record with a thick, powerful production that drives their "Curse of Aeons" right into your ears. It's one of my favorite death metal albums of all time.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/qotsa-sftd.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Queens of the Stone Age - Songs for the Deaf", "Release: 2002" %}

A great album that absolutely kicks ass!

Like many others, I discovered this album due to Dave Grohl's involvement in Nirvana, and stayed for songs like "No One Knows", "Go With the Flow" (which also had a superb music video!) and "First it Giveth".

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/v-v.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Verdunkeln - Verdunkeln", "Release: 2005" %}

Dark, obscure, and trance-inducing black metal from Germany.

I used to love listening to "Verdunkeln" in darkness, or in a candle-lit room, lying flat on the floor, and becoming totally absorbed in this epic record.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/k-wwe.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Katharsis - VVorldVVithoutEnd", "Release: 2006" %}

"VVorldVVithoutEnd" is a relentless assault that isn't comparable to anything else out there. It's a monument of chaos-driven destruction that's both a marvel of sound engineering and a fierce demonstration of the band's dedication to their dark craft - the "Grim lorde death, he is once more to ryde!" ("Eden Belovv").

And if the apocalypse had a soundtrack, this would be it.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/r-eod.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Repugnant - Epitome of Darkness", "Release: 2006" %}

Most likely the peak of that "new wave of Swedish death metal", and definitely a great album. It's full of rather catchy and memorable songs that I can still sing along to almost 20 years later.

Oh, and there's been a CD-R around back then that's got a rough mix of the album on it. I've still got it lying around somewhere, and it sounds much better than the vinyl record does.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/nc-tir.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Necros Christos - Trivne Impvrity Rites", "Release: 2007" %}

An impressive (concept) album that mixed black and death metal with dark ambient and modern classical guitar pieces.

I love how the various elements work together and how every track itself is outstanding on its own.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/cdg-h.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Cultes Des Ghoules - Häxan", "Release: 2008" %}

Deranged black metal from Poland that's heavily inspired by the earliest releases of the genre.

The production is raw, dark and obscure and makes this album stand out for its morbid, evil atmosphere.

"Häxan" also made me discover the excellent movie "Possession" by Andrzej Żuławski that was sampled, to great effect, on "The Impure Wedding".

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/dc-gota.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Dead Congregation - Graves of the Archangels", "Release: 2008" %}

Death metal from Greece, and easily among the best death metal albums of the new millennium.

Its production is thick and dark, and both the songwriting and the musician's craftsmanship is excellent.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/ir-reoce.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Impetuous Ritual - Relentless Execution of Ceremonial Excrescence", "Release: 2009" %}

Their debut album, and an absolute bulldozer.

Influences from black and death metal are distilled into a thick, dark "Ritual of the Crypt" that gets delivered with such relentless ferocity that it leaves nothing but destruction in its wake.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/sas-lfv.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Soap&Skin - Lovetune for Vacuum", "Release: 2009" %}

A _very_ interesting experimental album.

Words won't do it any justice, so you better just go and listen to it yourself.

{% imageHeader "/img/albums/t-sc.jpg", imageHeaderSize, "h3", "Teitanblood - Seven Chalices", "Release: 2009" %}

A truly worthy final entry for this decade.

At the time of its release, this album was the best extreme metal album I'd ever heard, and I haven't found a better one yet.

"Seven Chalices" is an amalgamation of everything evil, morbid and occult that humanity ever conceived, cast into the shape of extreme black/death metal darkness. The DLP release includes a 16-page booklet, containing drawings and writings in a multitude of languages, that left me speechless for a while back then.
